[Music]
ten things that happen to your body if
you walk every day the great Greek
physician Hippocrates once said walking
is a man's best medicine well he hit the
nail right on the head with that one
walking is totally free easy requires a
little effort and benefits not only your
physical but also your mental well-being
we're about to get into that and if you
stick around till the end of the video
you'll find out what the fit formula is
and how it can help you out big-time
before you grab your sneakers and head
out for your walk subscribe to our
channel and turn on post notifications
to keep up with all of our updates 10
brain boosting effect a study at the
university of kansas has revealed how
low impact aerobic exercises like
walking prevent the early onset of
dementia and reduce the risk of
developing Alzheimer's disease over 35
million people around the world suffer
from Alzheimer's and sadly it's only
getting worse
scientists predict that this number will
double in the next 20 years the good
news is that people who are physically
active throughout their life are much
less prone to this disease than those
who have a more sedentary lifestyle and
that's because they have more volume in
their hippocampus the part of the brain
responsible for verbal memory and
learning plus walking improves your
overall mental well-being by reducing
stress and releasing endorphins it
stimulates not only the production of
chemicals responsible for brain health
but also the growth and survival of
neural blood vessels and cells 9
improved eyesight surprising right
moving your legs helps your eyes how in
the heck do they have anything to do
with each other
well first off walking can help fight
glaucoma by relieving eye pressure you
see Lahoma develops when too much fluid
builds up in the eye increasing the
pressure inside that pressure in turn
affects the optic nerve which results in
visual impairment
the glaucoma Research Foundation
recommends walking as one of the best
ways to reduce the risk of developing
glaucoma and even relieve its symptoms
if you think you're way too young to
start worrying about glaucoma you should
know that walking is good for eyesight
in general both low and high intensity
exercise strengthens and stimulates the
visual cortex that part of the brain
that processes the images our eyes send
to it so get on the road to improve
vision and protect your eyes now from
potential problems in the future 8:4
revention of heart disease you're
probably well aware of the fact that
running makes your hearts stronger but
according to the American Heart
Association walking is no less effective
than running when it comes to the
prevention of heart disease and stroke a
daily half-hour walk helps avoid serious
problems like coronary heart disease to
name one by lowering high blood pressure
and cholesterol levels and improving
blood circulation 7 increased lung
volume walking is an aerobic exercise
which means that it increases oxygen
flow in the bloodstream and helps
eliminate toxins and wastes in short
it's great for your lungs because of
better quality and deeper breathing some
symptoms associated with lung disease
can show significant improvement the
stress and medication that lung disease
brings with it weaken the immune system
of those suffering from it we all know
that spending time outdoors is a great
immunity booster so why wouldn't you
start walking every day 6 benefits for
the pancreas believe it or not walking
for exercise is a surprisingly more
effective way to prevent diabetes than
running is in a Duke University study
over a six-month trial period a group of
frequent walkers demonstrated a 6 times
greater improvement in glucose tolerance
or blood sugar absorption than a group
of runners more efficient use of blood
sugar allows your pancreas to produce
less insulin giving it a much-needed
rest to gather strength 5
proved digestion just half an hour of
walking every day not only lowers the
risk of developing colon cancer but also
improves digestion and regulates bowel
movements good news for those who suffer
from chronic constipation what's even
better walking helps the chances of
surviving colon cancer even after it's
already been diagnosed this incredible
fact was discovered in a study of over
150 thousand men and women where
activity levels were compared with the
number of those who got colon cancer and
died of it four toned muscles muscle
tone and weight loss is also totally
achievable through simple walking in
fact just 10,000 steps a day can be just
as effective as a full-blown workout at
the gym especially if you add some
intervals or uphill walking just
remember to use correct form though keep
your spine straight bend your elbows at
a 90 degree angle swing your arms and
stabilize your pelvis find your optimal
pace but don't break out into a jog this
sort of speed walking is low-impact and
doesn't require any recovery time which
means no sore muscles to keep you from
getting out and walking the next day
thumbs up if that sounds like something
you're game for three sturdier bones and
joints walking can provide more joint
mobility prevent the loss of bone
density and even reduce the risk of
fractures the Arthritis Foundation
recommends at least 30 minutes of
moderate walking a day to reduce pain
stiffness and inflammation in the joints
building strong bones will help you
prevent osteoporosis and reduce bone
loss to back pain relief yet another
ailment walking can cure is back pain
this is a real lifesaver for those who
experience back pain during more
challenging high-impact exercises since
it's a low-impact activity it won't
cause more pain or discomfort like
running or a chai tea wood walking
contributes to better blood circulation
within the spinal structures pumping
important new tree
into the soft tissues in improving
posture and flexibility both of which
are vital for a healthy spine as you
walk you make your spine more stable and
strengthen the muscles that keep your
body upright and hey with better posture
comes a few added inches to your height
yes my basketball career will finally
take off no fine I can dream can't I
one a calmer mind if mind and body are
connected like they say then this point
is right at home on our list the Journal
of psychiatric research published the
results of a study on 50 individuals
suffering from major depression
it showed that walking 30 to 45 minutes
a day five days a week improve their
conditions significantly if walking
improves depression symptoms in patients
with MDD just imagine how easily it
could help us cope with just feeling
down or exhausted another group of
researchers at Iowa State University
worked with hundreds of college students
and we all know how stress - this bunch
is walking changed their mood for the
better even though no one warned them
that it could do so and a joyful walk
with a friend or loved one will only
enhance that happy effect and improve
your mood even more bonus the fit
formula if you now can't wait to get out
there and walk your you-know-what off
hold on for a sec because you shouldn't
try to do too much right away keep in
mind the fit formula it stands for
frequency how often intensity how fast
and a time for how long when you want to
level up change one of those components
at a time frequency if for whatever
reasons you can't go for a walk every
single day do it three to five times a
week if you can only handle a
five-minute walk start with that but do
it regularly and gradually add extra
minutes to it just make it your routine
that's what really matters
intensity two to three miles an hour is
a good average intensity if that's too
much for you set your own optimal pace a
good rule to remember is that you should
be able to talk while walking if you
start running out of breath and your
heart beats like crazy you're going too
fast time 30 minutes a day should be
your goal you can also count steps to
motivate yourself to keep going a good
amount to aim for is 6,000 steps a day
again if that's too much you can get
there gradually and start with what you
can manage right now if you still don't
feel motivated enough to start walking
for your health
try joining a class or find a buddy who
also wouldn't mind getting the benefits
of walking another idea could be to hire
a personal trainer the money you have to
pay them is a great motivation for some
people do you think walking is worth
giving a shot or maybe you already do it
and have success stories to share
we'd love to hear about it in the
comment section below if this video has
helped you out at all hit that like
button and send it to all your friends
subscribe to our channel if you haven't
done so yet stay with us on the bright
side of life
you